doc(release) release notes 24.04 OSS nov25 (#4867)
centreon/centreon-documentation: i18n/fr/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/version-24.04/releases/centreon-os.mdx

## Centreon Web

### 24.04.19

Release date: `December 15, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

> - [API] Added missing configuration change logs for host categories configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [API] Added "missing configuration" change logs for host categories configuration.
```

> - [Authentication] Password change attempts are now logged in a dedicated log file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authentication] Password change attempts (both successful and unsuccessful) are now logged in a dedicated log file.
```

> - [Authentication] When a user is authenticated using an IdP, the password fields no longer appear when editing a contact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authentication] When editing a contact, users authenticated by an IdP no longer see the password editing fields.
```

> - [Configuration] "Deploy Service" on host now indicate "Conf Changed*" in Pollers list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] The "Deploy Service" action from the hosts list now triggers a "Conf Changed" flag for the related poller in the pollers list.
```

> - [Configuration] Partitioning will work again with Amazon RDS Aurora but will be very costly the first time in terms of time, CPU, if not done for a while.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Adapted partitioning to properly work with Amazon Aurora RDS again. Impacted user's next partitioning will take longer than usual as the database catches up with missing partitions.
```

- [Configuration] Removed obsolete gorgone error message from configuration generation log.
- [Custom Views] Optimized performance when retrieving ACLs in widgets.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - [Authentication] Fixed an issue where a user could lose their DN during an LDAP connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Authentication] Fixed an issue where users could lose their DN during an LDAP connection.
```

> - [Configuration] Fixed an issue where Host category was not displayed in listing when not linked to Host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue in Dashboards that caused no service categories to be displayed after filtering by host category.
```

- [Core] Fixed an issue where log level wasn't taken into account in token removal script.
- [Core] Fixed an issue with API routes.

> - [Configuration] Fixed issue preventing user from disabling a meta-service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configuration] Fixed an issue preventing users from disabling a meta-service.
```

> - [Dashboards] Fixed issue preventing resource table widget from being updated properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Dashboards] Fixed an issue preventing resource table widgets from being updated properly.
```

> - [Host groups]Fixed an issue while checking for illegal characters on host group name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Host groups] Fixed an issue occurring while checking for illegal characters on host group name.
```

- [Packaging] Updated permissions of token purge log file.

> - [Translation] Fixed an issue where menu language was left by default in FR when "Detection by browser" option was selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Translation] Fixed an issue where the menu language was automatically set to FR when the "Detection by browser" option was selected.
```

> - [Translations] Fixed issue preventing translations from being displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Translations] Fixed an issue where translations were not displayed correctly.
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

- [Security] Enhanced security on password DOM storage in login page.
- [Security] Fixed an RCE on poller reload page.

> - [Security] Securized backup script to prevent command injections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Security] Secured backup script to prevent command injections.
```

- [Vulnerability] Fixed an issue on Broken Access Control in Administration Parameters Endpoint.

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed IDOR on Custom Views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed IDOR vulnerability on Custom Views.
```

## Centreon DSM

### 24.04.8

Release date: `December 15, 2025`

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - [DSM] Fixed an issue on dsmd daemon stuck on start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DSM] Fixed an issue with dsmd daemon being stuck on start.
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS in the Extensions Dynamic Services Configure page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in the Extensions Dynamic Services Configure page.
```

## Centreon Open Tickets

### 24.04.5

Release date: `December 15, 2025`

<details open>
  <summary>Enhancements</summary>

- [GLPI] Fixed group retrieval when using versions 9.5 and above.
- [Custom Views] Optimized performance when retrieving ACLs in widgets.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Bug fixes</summary>

> - Fixed issue preventing ticket from being closed when the corresponding resource had its status changed since the opening of the ticket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue preventing tickets from being closed when the corresponding resource had its status changed since the opening of the ticket.
```

</details>

<details>
  <summary>Security fixes</summary>

- [Open Tickets] Fixed an issue that exposed the password when using EasyVista.

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed SQL injection in the Notification > Rules page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed SQL injection in notification rules.
```

> - [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in Configuration > Notification > Rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Vulnerability] Fixed XSS vulnerability in notification rules.
```
